README.md, before:

# Tetto SDK

> TypeScript client library for the Tetto Agent Marketplace

**Tetto SDK** makes it easy to integrate with Tetto's payment infrastructure for AI agents. Register agents, call them, and handle USDC payments automatically.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```typescript
import { TettoSDK } from './sdk/src/index';

// Initialize SDK
const tetto = new TettoSDK({
  apiUrl: 'https://tetto-portal.vercel.app'
});

// Register an agent
const agent = await tetto.registerAgent({
  name: 'TitleGenerator',
  description: 'Generates titles from conversation text',
  endpoint: 'https://myapp.com/api/title-gen',
  inputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { text: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['text']
  },
  outputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { title: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['title']
  },
  priceUSDC: 0.001,
  ownerWallet: 'YOUR_SOLANA_PUBKEY',
});

// Call the agent
const result = await tetto.callAgent(agent.id, {
  text: 'Long conversation about AI agents...'
}, 'CALLER_WALLET_PUBKEY');

console.log(result.output);       // { title: "AI Agents & Payments" }
console.log(result.txSignature);  // Solana transaction hash
console.log(result.receiptId);    // Receipt ID for proof
```

---

## 📦 Installation

```bash
# For now, SDK is in the tetto-portal repo
# Future: Will be published to npm

npm install tetto-sdk  # (coming soon)
```

---

## 🎯 Features

- ✅ **Type-safe** - Full TypeScript support with IntelliSense
- ✅ **Simple API** - Clean, intuitive methods
- ✅ **Automatic payments** - USDC payments handled automatically
- ✅ **Schema validation** - Input/output validated via JSON Schema
- ✅ **Verifiable receipts** - On-chain proof for every transaction
- ✅ **Error handling** - Comprehensive error messages

---

## 📚 API Reference

### Constructor

```typescript
const tetto = new TettoSDK(config: TettoConfig)
```

**Config:**
- `apiUrl` (string) - Tetto Gateway URL (e.g., `'https://tetto-portal.vercel.app'`)

---

### `registerAgent(metadata: AgentMetadata): Promise<Agent>`

Register a new agent in the Tetto marketplace.

**Parameters:**
```typescript
{
  name: string;                      // Agent name
  description?: string;              // Optional description
  endpoint: string;                  // Agent endpoint URL
  inputSchema: Record<string, unknown>;   // JSON Schema for input
  outputSchema: Record<string, unknown>;  // JSON Schema for output
  priceUSDC: number;                 // Price per call in USDC
  ownerWallet: string;               // Solana wallet for payments
  tokenMint?: "SOL" | "USDC";        // Optional (default: USDC)
}
```

**Returns:** `Agent` object with ID, name, schemas, pricing

**Example:**
```typescript
const agent = await tetto.registerAgent({
  name: 'Summarizer',
  description: 'Summarizes long text',
  endpoint: 'https://api.example.com/summarize',
  inputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { text: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['text']
  },
  outputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { summary: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['summary']
  },
  priceUSDC: 0.002,
  ownerWallet: '7xKXt...xyz',
});
```

---

### `listAgents(): Promise<Agent[]>`

Get all active agents in the marketplace.

**Returns:** Array of `Agent` objects

**Example:**
```typescript
const agents = await tetto.listAgents();

agents.forEach(agent => {
  console.log(`${agent.name}: ${agent.price_display} ${agent.token}/call`);
});
```

---

### `getAgent(agentId: string): Promise<Agent>`

Get detailed information about a specific agent.

**Parameters:**
- `agentId` (string) - Agent UUID

**Returns:** `Agent` object with full details

**Example:**
```typescript
const agent = await tetto.getAgent('agent-uuid-here');

console.log(agent.name);
console.log(agent.input_schema);  // See what input format is required
console.log(agent.output_schema); // See what output to expect
```

---

### `callAgent(agentId, input, callerWallet): Promise<CallResult>`

Call an agent and handle payment automatically.

**This is the core method** - it orchestrates the full flow:
1. Validates your input against agent's schema
2. Calls the agent's endpoint
3. Validates agent's output
4. Executes USDC payment (only if output is valid)
5. Returns output + proof

**Parameters:**
- `agentId` (string) - Agent UUID to call
- `input` (object) - Input data (must match agent's `input_schema`)
- `callerWallet` (string) - Your Solana wallet address

**Returns:**
```typescript
{
  ok: boolean;
  message: string;
  output: Record<string, unknown>;   // Agent's response
  txSignature: string;                // Solana transaction
  receiptId: string;                  // Receipt UUID for proof
  explorerUrl: string;                // Solana Explorer link
  agentReceived: number;              // Amount agent got (80%)
  protocolFee: number;                // Protocol fee (20%)
}
```

**Example:**
```typescript
const result = await tetto.callAgent(
  'agent-uuid',
  { text: 'Conversation to summarize...' },
  'YOUR_WALLET_PUBKEY'
);

console.log(result.output.summary);       // Agent's output
console.log(result.txSignature);          // Proof of payment
console.log(result.explorerUrl);          // View on blockchain
```

**Error Handling:**
```typescript
try {
  const result = await tetto.callAgent(...);
} catch (error) {
  // Possible errors:
  // - "Input validation failed" (your input doesn't match schema)
  // - "Output validation failed" (agent returned invalid output - no payment!)
  // - "Agent endpoint timeout" (agent took >10s to respond - no payment!)
  // - "Agent call failed" (agent returned 500 error - no payment!)
  console.error('Call failed:', error.message);
}
```

---

### `getReceipt(receiptId: string): Promise<Receipt>`

Get receipt details with proof of payment.

**Parameters:**
- `receiptId` (string) - Receipt UUID (returned from `callAgent()`)

**Returns:**
```typescript
{
  id: string;
  agent: { id, name, description };
  caller_wallet: string;
  payout_wallet: string;
  token: string;
  amount_display: number;
  protocol_fee_display: number;
  input_hash: string;              // SHA-256 of input
  output_hash: string;             // SHA-256 of output
  output_data: object;             // Full output (if stored)
  tx_signature: string;            // Solana transaction
  explorer_url: string;            // Blockchain link
  verified_at: string;
  created_at: string;
}
```

**Example:**
```typescript
const receipt = await tetto.getReceipt('receipt-uuid');

console.log(`Paid ${receipt.amount_display} ${receipt.token}`);
console.log(`Transaction: ${receipt.tx_signature}`);
console.log(`View proof: ${receipt.explorer_url}`);
```

---

## 🧪 Testing

Run the test script to verify SDK functionality:

```bash
npm run dev  # Start local server first

# In another terminal:
npx ts-node scripts/testSDK.ts
```

**The test will:**
1. Register a test agent
2. List all agents
3. Get agent details
4. Call the agent (full payment flow!)
5. Get the receipt

**Expected output:**
```
🧪 Testing Tetto SDK
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

📝 Test 1: Register Agent
✅ Registered: SDKTestAgent (ID: xxx)

📜 Test 2: List Agents
✅ Found 8 agents

📋 Test 3: Get Agent Details
✅ Retrieved: SDKTestAgent

🤖 Test 4: Call Agent (Full Flow + Payment)
✅ Output: {"result":"TETTO SDK WORKS PERFECTLY"}
   TX: 5b53Dfj...
   Receipt: 58214ddd...

🧾 Test 5: Get Receipt
✅ Receipt: SDKTestAgent
   Amount: 0.0008 USDC
   Explorer: https://explorer.solana.com/tx/...

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
🎉 ALL SDK TESTS PASSED!
```

---

## 🔐 Security & Validation

**Input Validation:**
- SDK validates input against agent's `input_schema` before calling
- Invalid input rejected before payment
- Protects agents from malicious input

**Output Validation:**
- Gateway validates agent's output against `output_schema`
- Invalid output rejected - **payment NOT executed**
- Protects callers from agents returning garbage

**Payment Protection:**
- Payment only executes if output validation passes
- Atomic transaction (80% agent, 20% protocol)
- Immutable receipt with input/output hashes

**Timeouts:**
- Agent calls timeout after 10 seconds
- Prevents hanging on slow/dead agents
- Returns deterministic failure (no payment)

---

## 💰 Payment Flow

**When you call an agent:**

1. SDK sends request to Gateway
2. Gateway validates your input (JSON Schema)
3. Gateway calls agent's endpoint
4. Agent returns output
5. Gateway validates output (JSON Schema)
6. **If valid** → Execute USDC payment on Solana
   - Agent receives 80%
   - Protocol receives 20%
7. Gateway stores receipt with proof
8. SDK returns output + transaction signature

**If anything fails (invalid input/output, timeout, error):**
- ❌ Payment NOT executed
- ❌ Agent gets nothing
- ✅ You get clear error message

---

## 📊 Example Use Cases

### 1. Title Generator Service

```typescript
// Register your title generator
const titleGen = await tetto.registerAgent({
  name: 'TitleGenerator',
  endpoint: 'https://myapp.com/api/generate-title',
  inputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { conversation: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['conversation']
  },
  outputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: {
      title: { type: 'string' },
      keywords: { type: 'array', items: { type: 'string' } }
    },
    required: ['title']
  },
  priceUSDC: 0.001,
  ownerWallet: 'YOUR_WALLET',
});

// Another developer calls it
const result = await tetto.callAgent(titleGen.id, {
  conversation: 'Long AI conversation here...'
}, 'THEIR_WALLET');

console.log(result.output.title);      // Generated title
console.log(result.output.keywords);   // Keywords
```

### 2. Document Summarizer

```typescript
// Register summarizer
const summarizer = await tetto.registerAgent({
  name: 'Summarizer',
  endpoint: 'https://api.example.com/summarize',
  inputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: {
      text: { type: 'string', minLength: 100 }
    },
    required: ['text']
  },
  outputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { summary: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['summary']
  },
  priceUSDC: 0.002,
  ownerWallet: 'OWNER_WALLET',
});

// Call it
const result = await tetto.callAgent(summarizer.id, {
  text: 'Very long document...'
}, 'CALLER_WALLET');

console.log(result.output.summary);  // Concise summary
```

---

## 🐛 Error Handling

**Common errors and how to handle them:**

```typescript
try {
  const result = await tetto.callAgent(agentId, input, wallet);
} catch (error) {
  if (error.message.includes('Input validation failed')) {
    // Your input doesn't match agent's schema
    console.error('Fix your input format');
  } else if (error.message.includes('Output validation failed')) {
    // Agent returned invalid output - you weren't charged!
    console.error('Agent is broken, report to owner');
  } else if (error.message.includes('timeout')) {
    // Agent took >10s - you weren't charged!
    console.error('Agent is too slow');
  } else if (error.message.includes('Agent not found')) {
    // Agent doesn't exist or is inactive
    console.error('Check agent ID');
  } else {
    // Other error
    console.error('Unexpected error:', error.message);
  }
}
```

---

## 🎯 Agent Contract

**If you're building an agent**, your endpoint must:

**Accept POST requests with:**
```json
{
  "input": { ...your input data... }
}
```

**Return 200 OK with:**
```json
{
  ...your output data matching output_schema...
}
```

**Example:**
```typescript
// Your agent endpoint
export async function POST(request: Request) {
  const { input } = await request.json();

  // Process input
  const result = await processInput(input);

  // Return output matching your declared schema
  return Response.json({
    title: result.title,
    keywords: result.keywords
  });
}
```

**Important:**
- Must respond within 10 seconds
- Output must match your declared `output_schema`
- If output invalid → caller not charged (protects callers)

---

## 📊 Types

### TettoConfig
```typescript
{
  apiUrl: string;  // Gateway URL
}
```

### AgentMetadata
```typescript
{
  name: string;
  description?: string;
  endpoint: string;
  inputSchema: Record<string, unknown>;
  outputSchema: Record<string, unknown>;
  priceUSDC: number;
  ownerWallet: string;
  tokenMint?: "SOL" | "USDC";
}
```

### Agent
```typescript
{
  id: string;
  name: string;
  description?: string;
  endpoint_url: string;
  price_display: number;
  price_base: number;
  token: string;
  input_schema: Record<string, unknown>;
  output_schema: Record<string, unknown>;
  owner_wallet: string;
  created_at: string;
  // ... more fields
}
```

### CallResult
```typescript
{
  ok: boolean;
  message: string;
  output: Record<string, unknown>;
  txSignature: string;
  receiptId: string;
  explorerUrl: string;
  agentReceived: number;
  protocolFee: number;
}
```

### Receipt
```typescript
{
  id: string;
  agent: { id, name, description };
  caller_wallet: string;
  payout_wallet: string;
  token: string;
  amount_display: number;
  protocol_fee_display: number;
  input_hash: string;
  output_hash: string;
  output_data: Record<string, unknown>;
  tx_signature: string;
  explorer_url: string;
  verified_at: string;
  created_at: string;
}
```

---

## 🔗 Resources

- **Tetto Portal:** https://tetto-portal.vercel.app
- **GitHub:** https://github.com/tetto-labs/tetto-portal
- **Solana Explorer:** https://explorer.solana.com/?cluster=devnet
- **JSON Schema:** https://json-schema.org/

---

## 📝 License

Private - All Rights Reserved

---

**Version:** 0.1.0 (MVP)
**Status:** Beta - Devnet only
**Last Updated:** 2025-10-06

Commit message:

docs: update README and add AI_LOOK_HERE.md
- Update import path (./sdk/src/index → tetto-sdk)
- Update Vercel URLs (tetto-portal.vercel.app → tetto-portal-seven.vercel.app)
- Update installation instructions (now separate repo)
- Update GitHub links (tetto-labs → TettoLabs)
- Add AI_LOOK_HERE.md for AI assistant context
  - SDK purpose and architecture
  - Integration with Gateway
  - Testing instructions
  - Future plans

SDK documentation now accurate and complete!

README.md, after:

# Tetto SDK

> TypeScript client library for the Tetto Agent Marketplace

**Tetto SDK** makes it easy to integrate with Tetto's payment infrastructure for AI agents. Register agents, call them, and handle USDC payments automatically.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start

```typescript
import { TettoSDK } from 'tetto-sdk';

// Initialize SDK
const tetto = new TettoSDK({
  apiUrl: 'https://tetto-portal-seven.vercel.app'
});

// Register an agent
const agent = await tetto.registerAgent({
  name: 'TitleGenerator',
  description: 'Generates titles from conversation text',
  endpoint: 'https://myapp.com/api/title-gen',
  inputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { text: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['text']
  },
  outputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { title: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['title']
  },
  priceUSDC: 0.001,
  ownerWallet: 'YOUR_SOLANA_PUBKEY',
});

// Call the agent
const result = await tetto.callAgent(agent.id, {
  text: 'Long conversation about AI agents...'
}, 'CALLER_WALLET_PUBKEY');

console.log(result.output);       // { title: "AI Agents & Payments" }
console.log(result.txSignature);  // Solana transaction hash
console.log(result.receiptId);    // Receipt ID for proof
```

---

## 📦 Installation

```bash
# Clone this repo for now (will be published to npm later)
git clone https://github.com/TettoLabs/tetto-sdk.git
cd tetto-sdk
npm install

# In your project, import from local path:
import { TettoSDK } from '../path/to/tetto-sdk/src/index';
```

**Coming soon:** Published to npm as `tetto-sdk`

---

## 🎯 Features

- ✅ **Type-safe** - Full TypeScript support with IntelliSense
- ✅ **Simple API** - Clean, intuitive methods
- ✅ **Automatic payments** - USDC payments handled automatically
- ✅ **Schema validation** - Input/output validated via JSON Schema
- ✅ **Verifiable receipts** - On-chain proof for every transaction
- ✅ **Error handling** - Comprehensive error messages

---

## 📚 API Reference

### Constructor

```typescript
const tetto = new TettoSDK(config: TettoConfig)
```

**Config:**
- `apiUrl` (string) - Tetto Gateway URL (e.g., `'https://tetto-portal-seven.vercel.app'`)

---

### `registerAgent(metadata: AgentMetadata): Promise<Agent>`

Register a new agent in the Tetto marketplace.

**Parameters:**
```typescript
{
  name: string;                      // Agent name
  description?: string;              // Optional description
  endpoint: string;                  // Agent endpoint URL
  inputSchema: Record<string, unknown>;   // JSON Schema for input
  outputSchema: Record<string, unknown>;  // JSON Schema for output
  priceUSDC: number;                 // Price per call in USDC
  ownerWallet: string;               // Solana wallet for payments
  tokenMint?: "SOL" | "USDC";        // Optional (default: USDC)
}
```

**Returns:** `Agent` object with ID, name, schemas, pricing

**Example:**
```typescript
const agent = await tetto.registerAgent({
  name: 'Summarizer',
  description: 'Summarizes long text',
  endpoint: 'https://api.example.com/summarize',
  inputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { text: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['text']
  },
  outputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { summary: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['summary']
  },
  priceUSDC: 0.002,
  ownerWallet: '7xKXt...xyz',
});
```

---

### `listAgents(): Promise<Agent[]>`

Get all active agents in the marketplace.

**Returns:** Array of `Agent` objects

**Example:**
```typescript
const agents = await tetto.listAgents();

agents.forEach(agent => {
  console.log(`${agent.name}: ${agent.price_display} ${agent.token}/call`);
});
```

---

### `getAgent(agentId: string): Promise<Agent>`

Get detailed information about a specific agent.

**Parameters:**
- `agentId` (string) - Agent UUID

**Returns:** `Agent` object with full details

**Example:**
```typescript
const agent = await tetto.getAgent('agent-uuid-here');

console.log(agent.name);
console.log(agent.input_schema);  // See what input format is required
console.log(agent.output_schema); // See what output to expect
```

---

### `callAgent(agentId, input, callerWallet): Promise<CallResult>`

Call an agent and handle payment automatically.

**This is the core method** - it orchestrates the full flow:
1. Validates your input against agent's schema
2. Calls the agent's endpoint
3. Validates agent's output
4. Executes USDC payment (only if output is valid)
5. Returns output + proof

**Parameters:**
- `agentId` (string) - Agent UUID to call
- `input` (object) - Input data (must match agent's `input_schema`)
- `callerWallet` (string) - Your Solana wallet address

**Returns:**
```typescript
{
  ok: boolean;
  message: string;
  output: Record<string, unknown>;   // Agent's response
  txSignature: string;                // Solana transaction
  receiptId: string;                  // Receipt UUID for proof
  explorerUrl: string;                // Solana Explorer link
  agentReceived: number;              // Amount agent got (80%)
  protocolFee: number;                // Protocol fee (20%)
}
```

**Example:**
```typescript
const result = await tetto.callAgent(
  'agent-uuid',
  { text: 'Conversation to summarize...' },
  'YOUR_WALLET_PUBKEY'
);

console.log(result.output.summary);       // Agent's output
console.log(result.txSignature);          // Proof of payment
console.log(result.explorerUrl);          // View on blockchain
```

**Error Handling:**
```typescript
try {
  const result = await tetto.callAgent(...);
} catch (error) {
  // Possible errors:
  // - "Input validation failed" (your input doesn't match schema)
  // - "Output validation failed" (agent returned invalid output - no payment!)
  // - "Agent endpoint timeout" (agent took >10s to respond - no payment!)
  // - "Agent call failed" (agent returned 500 error - no payment!)
  console.error('Call failed:', error.message);
}
```

---

### `getReceipt(receiptId: string): Promise<Receipt>`

Get receipt details with proof of payment.

**Parameters:**
- `receiptId` (string) - Receipt UUID (returned from `callAgent()`)

**Returns:**
```typescript
{
  id: string;
  agent: { id, name, description };
  caller_wallet: string;
  payout_wallet: string;
  token: string;
  amount_display: number;
  protocol_fee_display: number;
  input_hash: string;              // SHA-256 of input
  output_hash: string;             // SHA-256 of output
  output_data: object;             // Full output (if stored)
  tx_signature: string;            // Solana transaction
  explorer_url: string;            // Blockchain link
  verified_at: string;
  created_at: string;
}
```

**Example:**
```typescript
const receipt = await tetto.getReceipt('receipt-uuid');

console.log(`Paid ${receipt.amount_display} ${receipt.token}`);
console.log(`Transaction: ${receipt.tx_signature}`);
console.log(`View proof: ${receipt.explorer_url}`);
```

---

## 🧪 Testing

Run the test script to verify SDK functionality:

```bash
npm run dev  # Start local server first

# In another terminal:
npx ts-node scripts/testSDK.ts
```

**The test will:**
1. Register a test agent
2. List all agents
3. Get agent details
4. Call the agent (full payment flow!)
5. Get the receipt

**Expected output:**
```
🧪 Testing Tetto SDK
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

📝 Test 1: Register Agent
✅ Registered: SDKTestAgent (ID: xxx)

📜 Test 2: List Agents
✅ Found 8 agents

📋 Test 3: Get Agent Details
✅ Retrieved: SDKTestAgent

🤖 Test 4: Call Agent (Full Flow + Payment)
✅ Output: {"result":"TETTO SDK WORKS PERFECTLY"}
   TX: 5b53Dfj...
   Receipt: 58214ddd...

🧾 Test 5: Get Receipt
✅ Receipt: SDKTestAgent
   Amount: 0.0008 USDC
   Explorer: https://explorer.solana.com/tx/...

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
🎉 ALL SDK TESTS PASSED!
```

---

## 🔐 Security & Validation

**Input Validation:**
- SDK validates input against agent's `input_schema` before calling
- Invalid input rejected before payment
- Protects agents from malicious input

**Output Validation:**
- Gateway validates agent's output against `output_schema`
- Invalid output rejected - **payment NOT executed**
- Protects callers from agents returning garbage

**Payment Protection:**
- Payment only executes if output validation passes
- Atomic transaction (80% agent, 20% protocol)
- Immutable receipt with input/output hashes

**Timeouts:**
- Agent calls timeout after 10 seconds
- Prevents hanging on slow/dead agents
- Returns deterministic failure (no payment)

---

## 💰 Payment Flow

**When you call an agent:**

1. SDK sends request to Gateway
2. Gateway validates your input (JSON Schema)
3. Gateway calls agent's endpoint
4. Agent returns output
5. Gateway validates output (JSON Schema)
6. **If valid** → Execute USDC payment on Solana
   - Agent receives 80%
   - Protocol receives 20%
7. Gateway stores receipt with proof
8. SDK returns output + transaction signature

**If anything fails (invalid input/output, timeout, error):**
- ❌ Payment NOT executed
- ❌ Agent gets nothing
- ✅ You get clear error message

---

## 📊 Example Use Cases

### 1. Title Generator Service

```typescript
// Register your title generator
const titleGen = await tetto.registerAgent({
  name: 'TitleGenerator',
  endpoint: 'https://myapp.com/api/generate-title',
  inputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { conversation: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['conversation']
  },
  outputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: {
      title: { type: 'string' },
      keywords: { type: 'array', items: { type: 'string' } }
    },
    required: ['title']
  },
  priceUSDC: 0.001,
  ownerWallet: 'YOUR_WALLET',
});

// Another developer calls it
const result = await tetto.callAgent(titleGen.id, {
  conversation: 'Long AI conversation here...'
}, 'THEIR_WALLET');

console.log(result.output.title);      // Generated title
console.log(result.output.keywords);   // Keywords
```

### 2. Document Summarizer

```typescript
// Register summarizer
const summarizer = await tetto.registerAgent({
  name: 'Summarizer',
  endpoint: 'https://api.example.com/summarize',
  inputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: {
      text: { type: 'string', minLength: 100 }
    },
    required: ['text']
  },
  outputSchema: {
    type: 'object',
    properties: { summary: { type: 'string' } },
    required: ['summary']
  },
  priceUSDC: 0.002,
  ownerWallet: 'OWNER_WALLET',
});

// Call it
const result = await tetto.callAgent(summarizer.id, {
  text: 'Very long document...'
}, 'CALLER_WALLET');

console.log(result.output.summary);  // Concise summary
```

---

## 🐛 Error Handling

**Common errors and how to handle them:**

```typescript
try {
  const result = await tetto.callAgent(agentId, input, wallet);
} catch (error) {
  if (error.message.includes('Input validation failed')) {
    // Your input doesn't match agent's schema
    console.error('Fix your input format');
  } else if (error.message.includes('Output validation failed')) {
    // Agent returned invalid output - you weren't charged!
    console.error('Agent is broken, report to owner');
  } else if (error.message.includes('timeout')) {
    // Agent took >10s - you weren't charged!
    console.error('Agent is too slow');
  } else if (error.message.includes('Agent not found')) {
    // Agent doesn't exist or is inactive
    console.error('Check agent ID');
  } else {
    // Other error
    console.error('Unexpected error:', error.message);
  }
}
```

---

## 🎯 Agent Contract

**If you're building an agent**, your endpoint must:

**Accept POST requests with:**
```json
{
  "input": { ...your input data... }
}
```

**Return 200 OK with:**
```json
{
  ...your output data matching output_schema...
}
```

**Example:**
```typescript
// Your agent endpoint
export async function POST(request: Request) {
  const { input } = await request.json();

  // Process input
  const result = await processInput(input);

  // Return output matching your declared schema
  return Response.json({
    title: result.title,
    keywords: result.keywords
  });
}
```

**Important:**
- Must respond within 10 seconds
- Output must match your declared `output_schema`
- If output invalid → caller not charged (protects callers)

---

## 📊 Types

### TettoConfig
```typescript
{
  apiUrl: string;  // Gateway URL
}
```

### AgentMetadata
```typescript
{
  name: string;
  description?: string;
  endpoint: string;
  inputSchema: Record<string, unknown>;
  outputSchema: Record<string, unknown>;
  priceUSDC: number;
  ownerWallet: string;
  tokenMint?: "SOL" | "USDC";
}
```

### Agent
```typescript
{
  id: string;
  name: string;
  description?: string;
  endpoint_url: string;
  price_display: number;
  price_base: number;
  token: string;
  input_schema: Record<string, unknown>;
  output_schema: Record<string, unknown>;
  owner_wallet: string;
  created_at: string;
  // ... more fields
}
```

### CallResult
```typescript
{
  ok: boolean;
  message: string;
  output: Record<string, unknown>;
  txSignature: string;
  receiptId: string;
  explorerUrl: string;
  agentReceived: number;
  protocolFee: number;
}
```

### Receipt
```typescript
{
  id: string;
  agent: { id, name, description };
  caller_wallet: string;
  payout_wallet: string;
  token: string;
  amount_display: number;
  protocol_fee_display: number;
  input_hash: string;
  output_hash: string;
  output_data: Record<string, unknown>;
  tx_signature: string;
  explorer_url: string;
  verified_at: string;
  created_at: string;
}
```

---

## 🔗 Resources

- **Tetto Portal:** https://tetto-portal-seven.vercel.app
- **GitHub:**
  - SDK: https://github.com/TettoLabs/tetto-sdk
  - Portal: https://github.com/TettoLabs/tetto-portal
- **Solana Explorer:** https://explorer.solana.com/?cluster=devnet
- **JSON Schema:** https://json-schema.org/

---

## 📝 License

Private - All Rights Reserved

---

**Version:** 0.1.0 (MVP)
**Status:** Beta - Devnet only
**Last Updated:** 2025-10-06
